Feature/2019 05 08 ba and beyond conf (#511)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2019-05-08-BA-and-Beyond.md

* [You are doing it wrong: The truth about user stories – Pieter Hans](#you-are-doing-it-wrong-the-truth-about-user-stories--pieter-hens)
* [Conclusion](#conclusion)

****

## When BAs go BAD - Christina Lovelock

<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" alt="Christina Lovelock" src="/img/ba-and-beyond-2019/christina-lovelock.jpeg"></span>
[Christina Lovelock](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christina-lovelock/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} has built BA teams in several public sector organisations including the NHS, ranging in size from 5 to 120 Business Analysts. 
She currently leads the BA practice at the University of Leeds.
She is active in the BA professional community in the UK, attending and regularly speaking at local and national events and conferences. 

Christina's talk was purely soft skills related and depicts the sort of behaviours shown by business analysts when they face difficult situations.
Some typical BA behavioural mistakes are triggered by the way they see themselves in the team. 

> For instance, a BA could feel to not be part of the team: there are de facto less analysts than developers in a team which can lead to an «Us VS Them» mentality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, a BA could feel as if she not a part of the team: there are de facto less analysts than developers in a team which can lead to an «us vs them» mentality.
```

> It is also sometimes difficult to build a BA community and the BA role sometimes being sandwiched between IT and the business might lead to negative self perceptions such as «I am just a BA» or «Neither the PO nor the developers understand me».

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also sometimes difficult to build a BA community and being sandwiched between IT and the business can sometimes lead to negative self perceptions such as «I am just a BA» or «Neither the PO nor the developers understand me».
```

<img alt="bad-ba-behaviours" src="{{ '/img/ba-and-beyond-2019/bad-ba-behaviours.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 500px;">

> Understanding that the BA is fully part of the team and is not the only one accountable for the communication between IT and Business, leads to better collaboration and is a great step towards agility, allowing all team members to be more confident and positive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Understanding that the BA is as much a member of the team as the others and that he or she is not the only one accountable for the communication between IT and Business, leads to better collaboration and is a great step towards agility, allowing all team members to be more confident and positive.
```

> Whatever your role in a project team; collaboration, transparency, confidence - in yourself and in your team mates - as well as clear communication are key factors to succeed together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whatever your role in a project team; collaboration, transparency and confidence - in yourself and in your team mates - as well as clear communication are key factors to succeed together.
```

> Another difficulty in the BA role is having the right level of detail. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another difficulty in the BA role is providing the right level of detail in your analysis. 
```

Talking with other analysts and contributing to the practice are important aspects of the job.

Of course all those behaviours and feelings don’t just apply to business analysts but also to every team role: scrum master, developer, product owner, tester.
This talk gave us the opportunity to identify and name some feelings we can face as business analysts while giving us the keys to find solutions to the difficult situations we could face.

<img alt="ba-behaviours" src="{{ '/img/ba-and-beyond-2019/ba-behaviours.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 500px;">

## The 7 hidden layers behind agile techniques: Ever wondered why we use post-its during retrospectives? – Pieter Van Driessche

<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" alt="Pieter Van Driessche" src="/img/ba-and-beyond-2019/pieter-van-driessche.jpg"></span>
[Pieter Van Driessche](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pietervandriessche/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} has worked in IT for over 20 years and did most of the common software jobs: developer, analyst, team lead and project manager. 

> He experimented with cultural change management during 2 years, after which he returned to IT because of the faster speed of change. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He experimented with cultural change management for 2 years, after which he returned to IT because of the faster speed of change. 
```

> He has been an agile coach for almost 15 years and coaches all kind of teams in all kinds of organisations: software, operation or marketing teams, in Belgium and abroad, in small and large organisations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He has been an agile coach for almost 15 years and coaches all kinds of teams in all kinds of organisations: software, operation or marketing teams, in Belgium and abroad, in small and large organisations. 
```

He currently specialises in the full range of software product management: product strategy, discovery and development.

User stories are part of the root of our projects, we use them on a daily basis to achieve our goals, however the user stories are sometimes wrongly used, leading to counterproductive effects.
Here are some myths about user stories.

### The analyst writes the user stories and the dev team implements them

Writing a user story is not the BA responsibility, elaborating a user story is a team effort and everybody in the team is eligible to write user stories.
Writing the user stories together reduces risk of misunderstanding. 
Before implementing a user story, all team members should agree on and understand the user story content.

<img alt="glad-we-all-agree" src="{{ '/img/ba-and-beyond-2019/glad-we-all-agree.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 500px;">

### We don’t need documents or models anymore

User stories have to be backed up by documents and models. 
A user story alone is not enough, we need a context and the big picture.

> User stories are not meant to replace documents but to tell stories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User stories are not meant to replace documents, they are meant to tell stories.
```

### If it does not fit the 'As a \[role] I can \[do something]' - template, it is not a user story

> Having a template for the user story is an good way to ease the understanding of the common goal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having a template for the user story is a good way to ease the understanding of the common goal. 
```
